# The Influence of Predicted Effort and Time Constraint on Decisions between Actions

## Project proposal and motivation

Movement is the only way to express our thoughts and moods, which in its full expression determines our overall behaviour. A vast amount of research has been devoted to study how the brain generates and controls movement over the last century. However, recent studies are gradually relating the motor act, including speech, in the context of computational principles that have been most often related to economic decisions. Specifically, recent studies have described the generation and control of movements in terms of the benefits and costs associated between with potential movements, thus establishing a fundamental relationship between movement generation and decision-making theory. Furthermore, the study of the principles underlying how the brain generates movement are of significant relevance both from a scientific but also clinical perspective, as most disorders are often quantified in terms of the motor deficits they imply, e.g., Parkinson’s disease, ictus or simple ageing.

The combination of movement related choices and more cognitive decisions determines our responses and the behaviour with which we interact with the environment. This can be studied and modelled mathematically through optimal decision making and motor control theory. However, these theories fall short to consider the contribution and role of the inner perception of our body, namely the bodily perception or proprioception, which plays a crucial role when planning and executing movements.
In particular, proprioception provides internal corroboration that a movement is ongoing, it is hence a distributed phenomenon implicated in processes of top-down prediction and bottom-up correction, consistent with the hypothesis of distributed network implementing a bodily-reference framework that branches into brain areas other than the somatosensory cortex. However, the state-of-the-art motor control models have not yet characterised how the dynamics of proprioception internally contribute to the selection of specific movements, nor have yet explained how this relationship is distributed across the hypothetical proprioceptive network. Understanding the neural basis of movements and decisions and reconciling this with our sense of bodily perception into a single theory is not an easy task but is a major requirement to ultimately design directed neurorehabilitation techniques and to provide a principled view to neurodegenerative motor symptoms. 

Despite its obvious practical and clinical importance, proprioception remains one of the least studied senses, often overshadowed by its more familiar counterparts. Hence, **the main goal of the project we present is to develop a unifying theoretical framework of proprioception, motor control and decision-making**. 

